Refactor relationship pages and add single relationships description (#293)
neo4j/docs-graphql: modules/ROOT/pages/relationships/unions.adoc

[[type-definitions-unions]]
= Union types
:page-aliases: type-definitions/unions.adoc, type-definitions/types/unions.adoc
:description: This page describes how to use unions on relationship fields with the Neo4j GraphQL Library.

> This page describes how to use Unions in the context of Relationships, as well as exemplifies how to use them in queries and mutations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes how to use unions in the context of relationships, and exemplifies how to use them in queries and mutations.
```

== Data model

Take the following graph as an example in which a `User` type has a relationship `HAS_CONTENT` to a `Content` type, which is a union of two node types, `Blog` and `Post`.

image::relationships/relationship-union.png[title="Model of a User node connected to both Blog and Post nodes through the HAS_CONTENT relationship. The HAS_CONTENT relationship properties differ between the two target node types."]

== Sample database data

> For the sake of query result examples, let's consider a hypothetical database consisting of the following sample data, which follows the data model described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider a database consisting of the following sample data, which follows the data model described above.
```

image::relationships/data/Person-and-Blog-Post-Union.png[title="Sample database data of a Blog node (shown in blue) that has HAS_POST relationships to two Posts (shown in orange). User nodes (shown in green) have HAS_CONTENT relationships to both Blog and Post nodes.", width=70%]

== Writing type definitions

> Conceptually, both `Blog` and `Post` are types of "content" attributed to a `User`. However they are fundamentally different types of content with different fields therefore they can be grouped together by a Union type. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conceptually, both `Blog` and `Post` are types of "content" attributed to a `User`.
However they are fundamentally different types of content with different fields therefore they can be grouped together by a union type. 
```

.Defining the union and node types with relationship fields
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
union Content = Blog | Post

type Blog @node {
    title: String
    posts: [Post!]! @relationship(type: "HAS_POST", direction: OUT)
}

type Post @node {
    content: String
}

type User @node {
    name: String
    content: [Content!]! @relationship(type: "HAS_CONTENT", direction: OUT)
}
----

== Querying a union

Union types are useful for modeling relationships that can point to multiple different node types which do not share common fields. 

> When querying a relationship field of a Union type, you must use inline fragments to specify which fields to return for each possible type in the union.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When querying a relationship field of a union type, you must use inline fragments to specify which fields to return for each type in the union.
```

.Get User nodes with related Content nodes with inline fragments for all concrete member types
====
Notice the use of inline fragments for all the member types of the `Content` union, which are `Blog` and `Post` in this case. 

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
    users {
        name
        content {
            ... on Blog {
                title
            }
            ... on Post {
                content
            }
        }
    }
}
----
====

> If the inline fragment corresponding to a union member type is not included in the query, then no fields of that type will be returned. Instead the response will be an empty object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the inline fragment corresponding to a union member type is not included in the query, then no fields of that type are returned.
Instead the response will be an empty object.
```

.Get User nodes with related Content nodes omitting the Post type inline fragment
====

The following query only includes an inline fragment for the `Blog` type, and omits the inline fragment for the `Post` type:
[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
    users {
        name
        content {
            ... on Blog {
                title
            }
        }
    }
}
----

> The response to this query will include empty objects for the `Post` type, as no fields were specified for it in the query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response to this query includes empty objects for the `Post` type, as no fields were specified for it in the query:
```

[source, javascript, indent=0]
----
const result = {
    data: {
        users: [
            {
                name: "Alice",
                content: [{ title: "Alice's Blog" }, {}]
            },
            {
                name: "Bob",
                content: [{}]
            }
        ]
    }
}
----
====

> === Filtering for specific union member type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Filtering for a specific union member type
```

To filter for a specific union member type, you can use the `where` argument on the relationship field.

.Get User nodes with related Content nodes filtered by Blog type
====

> Notice the inline fragment corresponding to the `Post` type does not need to be included in the query, as they will be filtered out by the `where` argument:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice the inline fragment corresponding to the `Post` type does not need to be included in the query, as they are filtered out by the `where` argument:
```

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
    users {
        name
        content(where: { Blog: { NOT: { title: { eq: null } } }}) {
            ... on Blog {
                title
            }
        }
    }
}
----
====

> == Creating a Union relationship

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Creating a union relationship
```

> To create the sample database data shown in the graph above, an approach could be to first create the `User` nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create the sample database data shown in the graph above, one approach is to first create the `User` nodes.
```

> `User` Alice is connected through the `HAS_CONTENT` relationship to a `Blog` node with 2 `Post` nodes connected to it through the `HAS_POST` relationship. The relationship to the `Content` union can be created through a nested mutation at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`User` Alice is connected through the `HAS_CONTENT` relationship to a `Blog` node with two `Post` nodes connected to it through the `HAS_POST` relationship.
The relationship to the `Content` union can be created through a nested mutation at the same time.
```

.Create User nodes with HAS_CONTENT relationship to Blog nodes
====
Notice the specification of the concrete type (`Blog`) of the `Content` union in the `create` input.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
mutation {
    createUsers(
        input: [
            { 
                name: "Bob" 
            },
            {
                name: "Alice"
                content: {
                    Blog: {
                        create: [
                            {
                                node: {
                                    title: "Our Blog"
                                    posts: { 
                                        create: [
                                            { node: { content: "Alice's Post" } },
                                            { node: { content: "Bob's Post" } }
                                        ]
                                    }
                                }
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    ) {
        users {
            name
        }
    }
}
----
====

> Executing this mutation on an empty database will create the following graph:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Executing this mutation on an empty database creates the following graph:
```

image::relationships/data/Person-and-Blog-Post-Union-partial.png[title="Sample database data of User nodes (shown in green) and a Blog node (shown in blue) that has HAS_POST relationships to two Posts (shown in orange). The HAS_CONTENT relationship between User and Post nodes is missing.", width=70%]

> == Update a Union relationship

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Update a union relationship
```

> All that's left to do now is to update the `User` nodes and create their HAS_POST relationships to the `Post` nodes part of the `Content` union.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can update the `User` nodes and create their `HAS_POST` relationships to the `Post` nodes part of the `Content` union.
```

.Update User nodes with HAS_CONTENT relationships to Post nodes
====
Notice the specification of the concrete type (`Post`) of the `Content` union in the `update` input.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
mutation {
    mutation {
        updateUsers(
           where: { name: { eq: "Alice" } }
           update: {
               content: {
                    Post: [
                        {
                            connect: [
                                {
                                    where: { node: { content: { eq: "Alice's Post" } } }
                                }
                            ]
                        }
                    ]
                }
            }
        ) {
            users {
                name
            }
        }
    }
}
----
====

> The same mutation should be executed again for `User` Bob, adjusting the filter criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute the same mutation again for `User` Bob, adjusting the filter criteria.
```
